### socket addresses

*(Strings)*

Socket address strings consist of two parts as follows: `transport://address`. The transport specifies the underlying transport protocol to use. The meaning of the address part is specific to the underlying transport protocol.
* *TCP transport mechanism*: `'tcp://127.0.0.1:65000'` When binding a TCP socket, address of the form `tcp://interface:port` should be used. Port is the TCP port number to use. Interface is either: `IPv4` or `IPv6` address of a local network interface, or DNS name of the remote box. It is possible to use named interfaces like `eth0`. For more info see [nanomsg docs](http://nanomsg.org/v0.5/nn_tcp.7.html).
* *in-process transport mechanism*: `'inproc://bar'` The `inproc` transport allows messages between threads or modules inside a process. In-process address is an arbitrary case-sensitive string preceded by `inproc://` protocol specifier. All in-process addresses are visible from any module within the process. They are not visible from outside of the process. The overall buffer size for an inproc connection is determined by `rcvbuf` socket option on the receiving end of the connection. `sndbuf` is ignored. In addition to the buffer, one message of arbitrary size will fit into the buffer. That way, even messages larger than the buffer can be transfered via inproc connection.
* *inter-process transport mechanism*: `'ipc:///tmp/foo.ipc'` The `ipc` transport allows for sending messages between processes within a single box. The nanomsg implementation uses native IPC mechanism provided by the local operating system and the IPC addresses are thus OS-specific. On POSIX-compliant systems, UNIX domain sockets are used and IPC addresses are file references. Note that both relative (`ipc://test.ipc`) and absolute (`ipc:///tmp/test.ipc`) paths may be used. Also note that access rights on the IPC files must be set in such a way that the appropriate applications can actually use them. On Windows, named pipes are used for IPC. The Windows IPC address is an arbitrary case-insensitive string containing any character except for backslash: internally, address `ipc://test` means that named pipe `\\.\pipe\test` will be used.
